asami family has agreed to teach me
everything we know about the Northern
Lights reindeer and surviving in the
Arctic wilderness and I've come this far
north to me Oh I'm Gordon
thanks to meet your pitchy so I read
it's very it's rude to ask someone how
many reindeer they have is that correct
how much money in the bank you have I
have no money in the back I can see this
of 40 at least here so these are I don't
want to know I don't want if it's rich I
don't want to know I think I can count
them Petri mattes started looking after
reindeer when he was just two years old
he comes from a long line of Sami
reindeer herders and still follows the
traditional ways
see you shoes is that reindeer fire yes
yeah much much better what you have
Noddy and it's really best when I'm in
there minus 30 minus 40 and I called us
15 it's 1999 China where there's one
week and there's minus 50 right oh
really
so when it's down as low as minus 50 you
don't see reindeer shaking and shivering
no if they get enough food in the forest
no problem with that cold weather
reindeer evolved during the Ice Age
there are reports of them living in
temperatures as low as minus 70
Petre leaves me in charge of feeding
time so I can take a closer look at
these incredible animals hey you over
here it's amazing to be eyeball to
eyeball nose to nose with reindeer the
first thing I'm struck by is their
winter coat which is up to 7 centimeters
thick fur covers almost every part of
their body it's almost impossible to
sink my hand into this dense fur it is
unbelievably thick you can't part the
hairs and see the skin beneath not only
is he hair super thick but each one of
these hair fibers is is hollow so the
animal is insulated in each individual
here is insulated with that ear void in
the middle everything about them from
their feet to the tops of their antlers
from the tip of the nose the end of the
tail they adapted to survive in one of
the harshest environments on earth
[Music]
[Applause]